ROUND 1
=======

I'd drunk too much with Mark Reay on Wednesday so left the car at
The Ranch. I couldn't get it early Thursday (Sydney train botches) so
I saw Mark in the afternoon at the Quest for 2 beers and I ate
something herbal as well for the first time. It didn't seem to have
much effect either way. Just as well. It was a very hot day so I watched
a bit of the Carlton Richmond game then snoozed as Carlton looked set
for an easy win.

I woke up from my slumber to see it was an even game at 3/4 time! I watched
the last quarter and enjoyed the legendary Richmond win. There's still the
same copy protection issues so I'm watching on my phone, I'll have to try
Yimmy's laptop soon.

Friday night was less exciting than I'd anticipated. I got both my NRL
tips wrong; I put on a 6/6 AFL bet which you can find in the bets/
directory of this git project. Hawthorn beat Essendon quite easily, I
had some poker at Wests Ashfield and just kept an eye on the score a
few times.

Saturday I hoped would be a Super Saturday with horseracing, 3pm
League and 4:20pm Swans all viewable from Flemington Markets Hotel.
The horsies took up most of my attention and with $6 Happy Hour beers
the drinks were cheap too. I saw enough of the Swans to see that they
were making dopey skill errors and that's what killed them in the end,
and also killed my AFL bet.

Yimmy rang and invited me to come into the City for Thai with her and
Gina, we ended up in the V bar as Satang Thai tables were full, and we
had nice viewing screens for the NRL (Raiders beating Brisbane) and
the AFL (Collingwood thumping Port Adelaide and the MCG on a Saturday
night is a fine sight to see on big TVs). Even though the Collingwood
game was a thumping I found it excellent pub viewing.

Last quarter of Melbourne v GWS from MCG on Sunday was very exciting
and a very satisfying last-gasp win to the Giants. Final game of the
round was West Coast versus Gold Coast Suns in Perth; I'd hoped for
a good start for the West Coast but they lost early and easily to
the Suns.

News: the biggest news in the AFL this week is that South Australia
wanted to host the Sheffield Shield final at Adelaide Oval but the
AFL strongarmed them out of it (apparently the grass length couldn't
regrow in time to make it safe for Aussie Rules). So the cricket
final will be at a different Adelaide cricket ground.

