ROUND 4
=======

Hey diary, I got married this round! Thursday 3rd April to be exact,
so the Collingwood win over Carlton completely escaped my notice, it's
strange to ignore a Melbourne blockbuster!

Last week I wrote that tipping was good at 7/8 and it stayed good at 7/8
and a 6/6 multi-bet sadly got 5/6. Port Adelaide are bad this year
and couldn't win against St Kilda, even though the game was at the Adelaide
Oval. St Kilda seem unusually strong this year. They are one of my
hardest teams to tip (breakdown: 2/4) which is now also my frequency
for tipping Port (2/4). Amusingly my worst tipped team is Sydney Swans
(1/4; thought they'd beat Hawthorn, Brisbane, thought Fremantle would
beat them in Perth, it took a game against North Melbourne until I could
finally get them right!).

I did a lot of work on my AFL Perl programs in this github project,
adding command-line flags to both tipscore.pl and ladder.pl. I got the
Football Record at GWS v West Coast and comparing their ladder against
mine I was able to correct 2 Round02 results; I'd entereted the wrong
losing scores for two of the games which of course threw the percentages
out of whack. I'll do my best to improve my data-entry in future games.

I'm losing interest in NRL pretty quickly and my tipping in that sport
was terrible this week: 2/8! I'll be out of contention in Martin's tipping
comp pretty quickly but I guess I'm in it for the full season! Some of
the final scores are getting close to my imagined pick-the-scores;
20-12ish for a decently close game and 48-24 for a top team versus
a team with attacking flair. Just looking at the final numbers a few
of them are matching this basic pattern. Maybe Pick-the-score is a
better bet (and PTS is an absolute crapshoot) then regular betting
for NRL this year?

This coming week I'll have time and even most of Wednesday to consider
betting strategies so I should do a lot better in NRL tipping at least
(heck I'll even get the Daily Telegraph a bit). AFL I'm tipping very
strongly at so I won't need too many changes there; it is the Adelaide
Gather Round so that's something novel to look forward to.
