ROUND 8
=======

I couldn't get anything going in Sports betting this weekend and the
Saturday 3rd May Election Result didn't please me either. I might take
some time off newspapers; maybe just get the Monday Australian for
Solo Whist club diversion and a Daily Telegraph here and there;
perhaps the Wednesday issue for the NRL weekly preview.

Essendon won the Thursday night game against North easily enough, then
on Friday night Fremantle put in an appalling performance against St
Kilda, scoring just 1.1 (7) in the entire first half. They are very
hot and cold and they look like going back to being terrible on the
East Coast and decent in Perth.

Saturday my Gauntlet Western Bulldogs thumped Port at Ballarat, then
Adelaide whomped Carlton, Geelong edged a thriller against Collingwood
and West Coast predictably lost against Melbourne, who finally seem to
have a Club President again. (Melbourne on the up??)

Sunday GWS disappointed against the Swans, that's 3 GWS
disappointments in a row for me including last week's Canberra game, I
need GWS to start winning again and winning well. Hawthorn thumped
Richmond and Brisbane Lions got up against Gold Coast.

I'm very much enjoying the "Gauntlet" Minigame in AFL Tipping and I'm
still alive after picking Hawthorn in Round 7 and Western Bulldogs in
Round 8. I've typed in the fixtures up until Round 15 (they become
floating after then) so I'll do some advanced Gauntlet planning this
week for an hour or so. Some decent heuristics seem to be:

1) Pick whoever is playing West Coast
2) Pick whoever is playing North Melbourne
3) Shortest bookies betting price for the round eg 1.06 superhot
favourites (this usually works out to be a strong team playing West
Coast or a strong team playing North Melbourne so it's close to
heuristic 1 and 2 anyhow)

So far I've picked strong teams, the risk is I come across a round
where all my gauntlet picks so far are favoured to win and I have to
Gauntlet pick a bad team. I'll have to do an iffy weak Gauntlet pick
soon like Richmond to beat West Coast or North Melbourne to beat
Richmond or something like that.

Pick 5 will start (finally) in Round 11 but there's a lot of clubs
having their second bye for the season and some rounds only have 7
games in them so bad tipping will lead to early Pick 5 elimination.

According to the tipping website, there's 48403/83393 gauntlet players
left so they've dropped almost half the entrants in 2 weeks. Bit of
Maths if this continues there'll be 24000 gauntleters in Round 10,
12000 in Round 12, 6000 in Round 14, 3000 in Round 16 etc. etc. It'll
probably get smaller faster than that but I am very much enjoying the
Gauntlet minigame as I've said already.

NRL was "Magic Round" all games Brisbane but I didn't tip well
then. The bookies seemed to get most of the games right eg Newcastle
over Souths and Penrith over Brisbane so I should tip closer to Bookie
Odds I guess. I believe my NRL tipping is at exactly 50% (yep, 36/72)
while AFL is close to 6/9 66% yes 48/71 = 67%. Apart from my 0/2 Round
0, my worst AFL tipping round was 5. I've had 3x5, 2x6 and 3x7. Keep
up the good AFL tipping, Stu.

