Carlton (66) v Brisbane (103)

The AFL's love of putting Carlton in primetime TV slots is, frankly,
odd.

It's like giving someone who is taking their first ever tee shot a
massive audience. Let them learn the game first.

I love watching Carlton lose as much as the next person, but this is
too much even for me. It's like how there are just too many superhero
movies.

The Blues this season are a hot mess, even by their standards. All
week we were told the most heinous death threat had been directed
towards Voss, only to then discover it was a badly worded joke.

The way Voss went on, I thought he was in a level of danger not seen
since Whitney Houston in The Bodyguard.

Brisbane have no such problem, having been cured of having Voss as
coach a long time ago.

They should have warned the Blues. Friends don't let Voss coach.

If you want to ensure you get my columns every week, the best way is
to sign up for the email.

Friday

Gold Coast (69) v Collingwood (63)

Leaving Victoria is a rare and traumatic thing for Collingwood. They'd
be players on their list who had never been on a plane before, so it
would make sense they were a little distracted.

So thrown were the Pies by having to travel more than 30 minutes to
play a game, it took them an entire half to accept they weren't at the
MCG.

At halftime, they hadn't even kicked a goal.

When the Pies got going, they really got going and by the fourth
quarter they'd managed to hit the front.

Based on their entire history, it looked like the Suns were done and
dusted, but this is a new era; a bold new era when they are OK.

What does this mean for both clubs? Well, the Pies are obviously done,
and the Suns will win a premiership.

Saturday

Western Bulldogs (98) v Adelaide (109)

Apart from having a name that's fun to say, Riley Thilthorpe is a
pretty good footballer and as a bonus, looks like a bushranger.

Looking like a bushranger or a pirate is a big plus in sport.

I loved Danny Southern when I was younger, purely he wouldn't have
looked out of place on any ship in the golden age of piracy.

Thilthorpe's six goals were a big reason the Crows prevailed in this
one, and it's probably time we admitted they are a very good football
side.

Against the Dogs they just looked more organised overall.

The Dogs big problem is that their losses are all against the top
sides. I've always suspected that if you're going to win a
Premiership, you have to beat the top sides.

I'm not sure if the stats bear that out but it feels right.

With Fremantle winning, this was a tough loss for the Dogs.

Greater Western Sydney (111) v Geelong (85)

After a pretty tight arm wrestle, Aaron Cadman got a bit tired of the
Cats hanging around in the third quarter, so he booted four goals in a
17-minute blitz. He would finish with six.

There's nothing more fun than a forward catching fire, and Cadman
looked like the greatest player ever for those seventeen minutes.

The Cats had no idea what hit them. Like that time I drank a series of
Espresso Martinis in a short period of time.

I was too drunk to do anything, but too wired to go to sleep.

Jeremey Cameron would have mixed feeling returning to Engie Stadium,
for so long his home ground.

While now with Geelong, it must have been nice to go back and not see
the fans.

It was a disappointing loss for the Cats, and disappointing of the AFL
to make them play away from GMHBA Stadium.

Richmond (46) v Essendon (37)

I don't know if this is the worst game ever played, but it wouldn't
look out of place on the nominations list.

So bad was this that both teams should lose Premiership points even
the Tigers.

For the fans that were there, this will be something they'll tell
their grandkids about.

"Were you really at the Tigers/Bombers Round eighteen game in 2025
Grandpa?"

"I was," as Grandpa's eyes fix on the horizon and he gets that hollow
look again, "I saw things I can never unsee."

"Grandpa, why are you crying? Grandpa you're scaring me."

Essendon fans have got use to their team finding new and interesting
ways to break their hearts, but this was, well, just another low.

Everyone at Essendon is injured. Not since Spinal Tap drummers have I
seen such an unlucky bunch.

Nic Martin's knee injury was the last thing the team needed.

As to the game, this was "I wouldn't be upset if I was temporarily
blinded" stuff.

The Bombers had four goals from 55 inside 50s as they found ways to
butcher opportunities in the forward fifty, that even I, a Melbourne
supporter, hadn't seen before.

You could assume Richmond played well, but nothing could be further
from the truth.

They were so bad that they didn't kick a goal in the second and third
quarters yet still won.

In fact, they kicked three goals to one in the second half.

The second quarter was the closest thing to hell I've experienced.

Neither side kicked a goal, as two teams made up of people whose only
job is to play football, turned in a performance that looked like a
group of politicians at a media opportunity trying to pretend they've
held a ball before.

Thanks for ruining football guys.

If you want to ensure you get my columns every week, the best way is
to sign up for the email.

Fremantle (77) v Hawthorn (64)

This was intense.

Like when two cars confronting each other in a side street when only
one car will fit but neither driver wants to give way and then you get
stuck behind them and you realise once again two idiots are making
your life harder.

Anyway, I feel like I've gotten a bit off topic.

It was an intense game though. Both sides are jostling for position in
the eight, with Fremantle toying with their fans hope at the bottom of
the eight.

Relax Freo fans, they've got this! When have they ever let you down
before.

Neither side wanted to give up in this but the Dockers had it when it
mattered.

Mathematically, the dream of Hawthorn missing finals is still alive,
but I'm afraid it's still a long shot.

Sunday

Melbourne (119) v North Melbourne (83)

After taking off so many weeks this year, it was nice to see so many
Dees get involved again.

Taking June off obviously had refreshed a lot of them and it showed it
was all worth it to get this win over North Melbourne.

Of course, even with the midseason holiday, the win was helped by Nick
Larkey not playing. Put Larkey in and this was a different game.

North certainly took it up to Melbourne, and Tristan Xerri decided
taking people out would help.

I just hope if I ever do anything wrong people defend me like the
commentators did Xerri.

Taking someone's head off was described as an accident and not
intentional.

As I watched Tom Sparrow come to and get stretchered off, I thought,
gee, lucky it wasn't intentional.

St Kilda (87) v Sydney (92)

You've got to give it to St Kilda. They're mastering the art of
getting close but not winning.

In fact, that could be their motto, "Almost winning since 1873."

There was always a sense in this game that Sydney would break off the
shackles, but the Saints just wouldn't let them, like when an overly
familiar relative who hugs you way longer than necessary.

It took a bit of ruck brilliance from Brody Grundy, feeding the ball
perfectly to Errol Gulden from a stoppage, who roved and kicked the
winning goal to break away.

It keeps the Swans in the finals hunt, although distantly, like me
saying I'm still in the hunt to lose weight this year.

Port Adelaide (87) v West Coast (61)

Things are buried in the twilight Sunday slot for a reason. This round
they could have put a few more games here.

This was more entertaining than the Essendon-Richmond game, but then
even a one-year-old's birthday party is less excruciating than that.

The Eagles actually took the lead in this one, to the surprise of all
involved, and it took Zak Butters to remind his teammates they were
playing the Eagles and needed to get moving.

There was some good clean fun as Jason Horne-Francis and Harley Reid
got stuck into each other, with Reid playing one of his best games.

In the end however, Power may be struggling, but they're not that bad.
