Thursday

Brisbane v Geelong

I just want to say, it's good to be back for the year, and thanks to
everyone for reading this.

After all, there are now seven million footy shows now on TV, all of
them involving Kane Cornes in some capacity.

So thank you.

The AFL is back! Sort of, kind of, in a way.

Opening Round, a concept popular north of the Murray and viewed on a
level similar to home invasions south of it, stumbled into view over
the weekend.

Now, no one likes bagging the AFL more than me, but it seemed odd that
some people in the media seemed to be blaming the AFL for Cyclone
Alfred.

On a side note, it seems cruel they're now calling it ex-tropical
cyclone Alfred just because he's moved onto a new phase in its life.

There appears to me to be two separate issues here; one does Opening
Round work as a concept, and two, the cyclone.

The AFL can't really be blamed for a cyclone cancelling games, the
weather is kind of the one thing they don't ruthlessly manage.

As for Opening Round, the lack of games, and all teams not playing
does mean we sort of stagger into the season with all the momentum of
a sloth that just took a sleeping tablet.

But the ratings are huge, which means more money for the AFL, which is
after all the sole purpose football exists.

The AFL does need to do things for the northern states, after all,
despite the prevailing view in the Victorian media, it is a national
competition and has apparently been one for some time.

South Australia has Gather Round, Victoria the Grand Final, Tasmania
are getting a team even if they don't want one and Western Australia
has Harley Reid.

They've all got their thing.

The Northern states do need something.

I'm just not sure Opening Round is that thing.

Friday

Sydney (76) v Hawthorn (96)

It's hard to convey this game in words.

Mainly because I could barely see it as Fox Footy decided they needed
their scoreboard graphics to be the size required for someone who
reads a menu with their phone torch on 

Seriously, this thing was as unnecessarily large as that new ute your
tradie cousin is now driving.

Swans fans would be wondering why a cyclone couldn't have stopped last
year's Grand Final.

In fact, few fans have gone through so much trauma in such a short
period of time as Swans fans.

There was the 63-point defeat in 2014, then the 22-point loss in 2016,
the 81-point destruction in 2022 and then the 60-point loss last
year.

At what point does a government body step in and stop Swans fans from
following the team for their own good?

While Swans fans are probably nervous about the season, especially if
the worst happens and they make a Grand Final, Hawthorn fans are
excited.

A lot of people accuse this young Hawks side of being arrogant, but to
Hawthorn fans, this isn't seen as a criticism, but a compliment.

Being arrogant is the club's brand.

And they probably have reason to be arrogant. They win premierships
relentlessly and they just did a rebuild in a few seasons that take
some clubs decades.

People say I hate Hawthorn because they just have more success than
me, but I say to those people, 'true'.

It's going to be a long year.

Saturday

Gold Coast v Essendon

Being hit by a cyclone would only be the second worst thing to happen
to the Gold Coast Suns this year given they launched that new logo
recently.

As for Essendon, their fans are used to false starts, so they would
have been not too fazed about this.

Now this game is scheduled for the pre-finals bye weekend, which could
be the ultimate dead rubber or a chance for the Bombers to be knocked
out of the finals in the most entertaining way.

Sunday

Adam Kingsley (104) v Craig McRae (52)

Watching Collingwood lose is always nice, but the real highlight was a
tense exchange between the two coaches on the sidelines.

It came after Toby Bedford gave away a 50m penalty and McRae clapped
him and said, 'We're coming'.

Kingsley didn't appreciate it and said so.

A sensible approach from the AFL would be to give both coaches a
warning.. and strip Collingwood of any premiership points they earn
this season.

McRae should really be in trouble for false advertising, not since the
Blues told people they were coming has a team so clearly not delivered
on that promise.

If the Pies are coming, they are coming very slowly.

The Giants just ran them off their feet. 

Finn Callaghan showed why the Saints were willing to offer him a
billion dollars.

His game was almost as eye-catching as the Fox Footy scoreboard.

Pies fans wouldn't have been thrilled by the performance, even more so
when Nick Daicos grabbed at the back of his leg.

Apparently, it was just a cramp, but it does raise a serious question,
do the Pies have enough Daicosi (I think that's the collective noun)?

Have they been negligent in not producing more?

If I were Collingwood Chairman, I'd be playing Barry White around the
Daicos family all the time.

Byes: Pretty much everyone

