Thursday

Western Bulldogs (132) v Greater Western Sydney (44)

This season, Thursday Night Footy has been about as exciting as a
one-year-old's birthday party, and this week the Giants made it worse
than even Carlton or Essendon could manage.

Making a game worse than Carlton or Essendon is like playing a better
guitar solo than Jimmy Hendrix and Jimmy Page.

Even worse, the Giants are fighting for the eight, with the Bulldogs a
key rival. This should have been a good game.

This wasn't even a complicated game to understand. The Doggies
attacked the ball at every opportunity, their midfield was superior,
their forwards were too tall, and their defence shut down the Giants
run off half back.

All this was significantly helped by the fact the Giants seemed
weirdly uninterested in the game, which I soon was too.

Friday

Adelaide (101) v Hawthorn (87)

While most people love a Hawthorn loss, it was sad to see Will Day
reinjure his foot.

The Hawks say this was just bad luck not bad management, a bit like
when I try to convince people my headache has nothing to do with the
bender I went on the night before.

As I predicted at the start of the season, the Crows are top of the
ladder. Did I predict it publicly, or in a way that can be verified?
Why so many questions?

The Crows are like your self-sabotaging friend who finally pulled
their life together. It's nice to see, but do we trust them yet?

I think I do. I know, it feels weird to write that, but the Hawks
threw everything at them, and the Crows just handled it.

A competent Crows side! Further proof that anything can happen in
football.

Saturday

Melbourne (139) v West Coast (56)

It says a lot about Melbourne's season that there was widespread
relief in the crowd when the Dees won this.

Scarred from the week before, even a 63-point lead at three-quarters
time didn't seem safe.

But West Coast aren't the Saints, in fact, there's a strong argument
they are not an AFL side.

Even the Eagles fans sitting near me had to consult the Record a lot
to work out who their players were.

Perhaps most eye-opening from a West Coast perspective was Jai Culley,
who they delisted, had 13 disposals, seven marks and two goals.

Being let go by the Eagles must feel like being let out of jail.

Gold Coast (107) v Richmond (23)

Gold Coast were keen to avoid a repeat of their loss to Richmond
earlier this season, and they achieved that and then some.

The Tigers were horrible; there's no other way to describe it.

The only thing interesting about the game was seeing if Richmond would
be held goalless.

It took until the third quarter for them to kick one, so that ended
any interest I had.

The Tigers finished with two goals, and considering Ben King kicked
four, that was surprisingly not enough for the win.

It's not end of the world stuff for the Tigers, they have
overperformed this year already, but it was the percentage-boosting
win the Suns need to consolidate their spot in the eight, and they
have Carlton next week. Happy days!

Sydney (68) v Essendon (54)

Both these sides have been disappointing this season, but not as
disappointing as the SCG surface.

After Andrea Bocelli vandalised the playing surface back in April,
it's been a mess, and things only seem to be getting worse.

Things weren't helped when 115mm of rain arrived ahead of this game,
then during the game a hole was discovered.

No, I'm no expert when it comes to football fields, but I believe
holes are not ideal.

You would think the pregame inspection would pick up a thing like
that, but perhaps "holes in the ground" are not on the checklist.

Apparently, it was a hole that a sprinkler normally comes out of. Play
stopped as groundcrew came out with a bucket of sand and filled it up.

And that was the highlight of this game.

Collingwood (65) v Brisbane (92)

There are only three things that deliver pure joy, being in love, a
family gathering being cancelled, and watching your team beat
Collingwood at the MCG.

It's possible a Lions fan got to go to the game after a family dinner
was cancelled and met the love of their life in the Ponsford Stand.

After last week's no-show against the Suns, this was the perfect
comeback. Like the perfect comeback I once came up with in response to
Sally at work.

Unfortunately, I thought of it three years later.

Has Collingwood started to wobble? They've had three defeats in their
past four games, and they seem a distracted team.

Could it be that Craig McRae is now dating Jack Silvagni? Is Jack
Silvagni the Yoko Ono of the Pies?

I certainly hope so.

While McRae is choosing an outfit for his second date, the Pies just
seem off.

The problem is, I feel this is just false hope, and the Pies are going
to pull it together and ruin all our lives. Not to be overly dramatic.

Sunday

Nasiah Wanganeen-Milera (78) v North Melbourne (69)

It was always going to be hard coming off the dopamine hit that was
playing Melbourne.

St Kilda found the going tough when North did not surrender at any
point in the game, and instead, tried to win it.

Once again, Nasiah Wanganeen-Milera added more zeroes to his next
paycheck with a performance that has Saints fans praying to any god
they can think of for him to stay.

North bought real aggression to this, some too much, with Paul Curtis
reported for punching Angus Hastie in the throat.

Personally, I think punching in the throat shouldn't be allowed in our
great game, but I don't want to get all preachy about that.

Geelong (153) v Port Adelaide (65)

Geelong's training session couldn't have gone much better. They moved
the ball well, their skills seemed sharp, and they are very fit.

Unfortunately, it's a while before they'll get their next AFL game.

They have Essendon next week, then Sydney, and finish with Richmond.

A tough draw if I've ever seen one.

Fremantle (94) v Carlton (67)

I turned this on a bit late, and Carlton were a fair bit ahead.

"Oh, good," I thought, "I can watch Fremantle's comeback."

Even when the Blues led by four goals at halftime, there was still no
sense the Dockers were in danger.

And again, when they led by eight points at three-quarter time there
was still a sense of inevitability that the Dockers would run over the
top of them.

So, when the Dockers booted seven goals to one in the final it was
hardly surprising.

What to make of this for the Blues? Once again there was effort, but
they lost anyway, and convincingly.

You could point to the significant outs, but they could lose like this
even when they were in the team.

As for the Dockers, they move up to fifth, pretty impressive since
they started the season like someone stumbling out of a nightclub at
5am.

For those in Melbourne, I'll be performing live in Titus & Lehmo's AFL
Finals Extravaganza on Saturday the 30th of August. Tickets have just
gone on sale today.
