Thursday

Hawthorn (110) v Collingwood (46)

Hawks fans will tell you it's been a tough few years, with a lack of
self-awareness that would make Meghan Markle blush, but they really
enjoyed this win over Collingwood.

And it didn't even seem hard.

Things started badly for the Pies, when Jeremy Howe went off almost
immediately after a head clash with Jai Newcombe.

It's enough to rattle anyone, and the Pies from there seemed rattled,
especially in defence.

But this isn't new for the Pies.

Four defeats from its past five games have, like a vape shop in
Melbourne, left the Pies a smouldering ruin.

The Pie now don't just look wobbly; they look as stable as a South
American currency.

Usually, the Pies wait until finals to fall apart, but this is fun
too.

And while we all enjoy a Pies loss, watching Collingwood take on
Hawthorn is a bit like watching Elon Musk take on Mark Zuckerberg;
you're sad there's a winner and that both exist.

Friday

Geelong (109) v Essendon (65)

Essendon fans have gotten used to the club discovering exciting new
ways to torture them. This season saw them lose three players to
injury in a bye week.

That looked to be the high point of their season, but no, Dylan Shiel
managed to get referred directly to the tribunal for an act that
injured his teammate.

That's Essendon, always trying new things.

With everyone at Essendon either injured or about to get injured,
what's left of their team showed a lot of heart in this one.

Cats fans were more interested in how Jeremy Cameron would go, given
that the outcome of this was pretty much assured.

In his chase for 100 goals, Cameron finished on 79 for the year after
only kicking only four goals. What a loser!

Saturday

Richmond (52) v St Kilda (56)

Just two more stops left in Nasiah Wanganeen-Milera's Farewell to St
Kilda Tour and once again, he proved what a loss he is going to be.

With Richmond putting more pressure on than a charity mugger, the
Saints looked rattled, but managed to just fall across the line.

Richmond just lacked a bit of polish when it mattered, and really, it
didn't matter; the Tigers are building for the future and have so many
draft picks you'd thing they were an AFL expansion team.

My personal highlight of the game was when Rowan Marshall ripped off
Kamdyn McIntosh's headband.

It resulted in a free kick, which was not a surprise. In most
workplaces, if you randomly rip an item of clothing off someone,
consequences tend to follow.

Brisbane (90) v Sydney (92)

Well, this totally makes up for last year's Grand Final loss.

The Swans were everything they weren't last September, present.

With nothing on the line, the Swans felt no pressure and played like
it.

The final scoreline flatters the Lions, as they kicked three goals in
the last minute.

The Lions are in serious trouble.

They've had just one win in the last three games, and that win was
against the lowly Collingwood Football Club.

Now is not the time to be dropping games like this.

Like a man eating a souvlaki at 3am on a Sunday morning, the Lions
made a real mess of things on the weekend.

Carlton (74) v Gold Coast (93)

Say what you like about them, but Carlton do have a strong brand.

It's to be disappointing, then rally hope, then fall short when it
matters.

On Saturday, they delivered on all their key pillars.

For the first three quarters, they did very little, to the tune of
being down by 45 points at three-quarter time, and then they kicked
six of the final seven goals and looked to be a real chance, only to
still lose.

Why do they do this to their fans? There are torturers who have more
empathy for their victims than Carlton.

It was a scare Damien Hardwick probably appreciated, a reminder to his
players that the AFL is like hanging out with extended family, you can
never relax and never let your guard down.

Port Adelaide (86) v Fremantle (92)

This didn't deserve to be as good a game as it was.

Port Adelaide haven't exactly troubled the scorers this season; in
fact they haven't troubled anyone.

The first quarter saw the Power held goalless and it looked like the
Dockers were in for an easy night.

Then the Power rattled off eight goals in the second quarter, and it
was on.

Suddenly, even Aliir Aliir kicked a goal. Just madness.

Seven goals of those eight goals game in a 16-minute span, meaning
Port had squeezed all their best football for an entire season into a
quarter of an hourly.

It had Freo scrambling to stay in touch and they had to dig deep to
stay in touch at times.

With a minute to go and the score tied, it was that well-known key
forward Alex Pearce who took big pack mark and kicked the winning
goal.

Freo fans would be shocked; things could have gone badly and didn't.

Sunday

Greater Western Sydney (133) v North Melbourne (79)

This game happened. It happened exactly as you would expect, then it
was over.

Melbourne (99) v Western Bulldogs (105)

To be a star, you need to do big things in key moments, and that's
what Sam Darcy did when he ran back with the flight and took the key
mark in this game.

It came amongst a bunch of highlights in a game that didn't deserve to
be as entertaining as it was.

The Dogs, after all are fighting for the top eight, while Melbourne
are fighting to hope the next coach wants to keep them; both reasons
seemed motivating.

Sacking a Premiership coach is never an easy thing to do, and even
worse is having to sit next to them the next day and explain why.

Imagine breaking up with someone and then having to do a media
conference sitting next to them.

"It's not them, it's me. But also, obviously, I think it's them."

Now I think of it, many a partner has broken up with me, citing a need
to get a new voice, or more importantly, not to hear mine anymore.

In the end, when it came down to the last five minutes, the Dogs were
just better organised, but it's a scare for them.

West Coast (78) v Adelaide (87)

Sure, they didn't win, but for four quarters, the Eagles looked like a
real professional AFL club and not a bunch of people forced to do
community service.

In fact, entire minutes went by with outbreaks of competency occurring
all over the ground.

The last time the Eagles did that, the world had never heard of COVID.

This obviously caught the Crows by surprise.

That's the problem in the AFL, the minute people start saying you
could be premiership favourite, things tend to go pear-shaped.

Crows fans had been hoping they could keep quietly sneaking up on the
competition, but in the last few weeks people, even people in
Victoria, have remembered they exist.
