Thursday

Adelaide (100) v Geelong (119)

There may not be a more fun week in Australia than Gather Round.

Once again it delivered, with footy fans from around the country
descending on South Australia.

The thing that strikes you is how good a mood everyone is in. It's
like Disneyland for footy fans.

South Australia itself works perfectly. It's easy to get around,
there's place to go and Adelaide Oval is so beautiful it should be
hung in the Louvre.

The buzz at this first game was incredible, as the two teams were like
boxers trading haymakers.

The Crows landed some blows early, shooting out to a 30-point lead, as
Darcy Fogerty booted four goals in the second quarter.

Not since Maggie Beer released her range of ice creams have Crows fans
been so excited.

Unfortunately, the Crows were playing Geelong and Chris Scott did some
coaching stuff and Matthew Nicks didn't.

Helping Geelong were Adelaide's five straight misses for goal, and
from there the Cats smelt blood.

Up forward, Geelong had the advantage of kicking to Jeremy Cameron or
Patrick Dangerfield, the equivalent of deciding whether to take the
Bentley or the Rolls out for a spin.

The result was a Cats victory, everyone was exhausted, and it was only
night one of Gather Round.

Like a scene from Mad Max: Fury Road, Pies fans had made the trek over
to Adelaide in droves and would be thrilled they made the trip.

After checking their weapons in at the gate, Pies fans flooded
Adelaide Oval to watch their side pick apart a disappointing Sydney.

Steele Sidebottom may be old enough to already access his
superannuation, but he looks younger than almost anyone else out
there.

Talk that Collingwood are too slow and old now seems like wishful
thinking by opposition fans.

Nick Daicos made the game look far easier than anyone should, and Ned
Long looked worryingly good.

Sydney's big problem is scoring. Their forward line looks as dangerous
as a plastic spork.

Saturday

North Melbourne (89) v Gold Coast (141)

This game was played in the Barossa Valley, as AFL executives move as
many games as possible close to wineries.

To be clear, I fully support that policy.

A beautiful venue was somewhat spoiled by the football North Melbourne
dished up.

It looked like the Kangaroos had been on a wine-tasting tour before
the game.

There's no doubt the last few weeks have been worrying for North.

Defeating Melbourne looked like a big step forward, but it turns out
beating the Demons is like dressing yourself, something most
three-year-olds can do.

Against the Suns, another team on the rise, North looked lost.

The Suns had no such problems, in fact they knew exactly what they
were doing.

It was a feast, with 14 goalkickers for the Suns. A performance like
that was impressive. Even with their terrible jumpers, you must take
them seriously.

Carlton (121) v West Coast (50)

A week off from playing AFL helped the Blues avoid a loss this week,
as they took on semi-professional WAFL side, the West Coast Eagles.

This being Carlton, they still managed to kick for goal incredibly
poorly, losing the just returned Harry McKay to concussion and Brodie
Kemp to an ankle injury.

The game itself reached no great heights, as the Blues didn't look
good, they just looked like they were playing the Eagles.

West Coast look bad across the board. Their skills are poor, and they
can only keep up a level of intensity for a few minutes.

They also seem to have a limited understanding of the game. At one
stage, Patrick Cripps strolled into an open goal as no Eagles thought
to stand on the mark.

This is hardly something you want to see as a fan. It's always a worry
when you are paying more attention than your players are.

Western Bulldogs (97) v Brisbane (118)

If you are heading over to Gather Round next year, and I highly
recommend you do, get to Norwood Oval for a game.

Seeing two AFL sides go at it in such close confines is a treat, you
can hear the players talking and up close the clash of bodies makes
you realise just how brave these players are.

One problem though was the heat as both teams had to contend with
30-plus degrees. It meant hydration was key, which the crowd certainly
committed to it.

The Bulldogs came out storming, and by the third quarter, they held a
39-point lead.

So bad had the Lions performance been that Chris Fagan asked the
players who thought they had been playing to their ability to stand
up. Apparently almost no one did.

As always, a bit of public shaming delivered results. Brisbane, a team
that doesn't mind a comeback, launched an audacious one.

Eric Hipwood was the perfect example of the comeback. With just one
disposal at halftime, he finished with five goals, as the Lions ran
riot in the second half.

They booted 14 goals to 5 in the second half as the Bulldogs struggled
with the heat.

Melbourne (57) v Essendon (96)

Well, here we go again.

The Dees brief moment in the sun is over as they plumb familiar depths.

Against the Bombers, they were again deplorable. Most depressing is
it's the same old problems that have plagued the club for a few years
now.

The Dees were a good midfield and defensive team with a poor forward
line.

Instead of improving the forward line, they have brought the midfield
and defence down to the forward line's level.

It's not all the forward line's fault either. The delivery into the
forward line seems to be intentionally designed to stop them from
kicking goals.

Every time it's a high bomb into a forward pocket or the top of the
square. To mix it up, they sometimes kick it directly to an opponent.

This has not changed in several seasons, despite a lot of talk of
fixing the 'midfield/forward connection.'

It's an interesting strategy too, given Van Rooyen doesn't seem to be
able to mark, and Fritsch is so out of form (despite one decent
quarter in this) that you wonder if he wants to play AFL anymore.

The result is scores this season of 74, 66, 62, 46 and 57. That's only
impressive if you're playing golf.

In footy, that's a recipe for losing every game you play.

The response to all this from Goodwin is to make almost no changes of
note.

Anyone with eyes can see standards have slipped and aren't being
enforced.

A third-quarter rally gave some hope, but it just reminds everyone
that the talent is there, the effort just isn't.

The big difference was that Essendon were keen to be out there.

Sunday

Richmond (47) v Fremantle (108)

Back to the Barossa, with Richmond fans swapping their Beam and Coke
to try this 'wine stuff'.

Already achieving their season goal of beating Carlton, the Tigers are
looking for effort, continuing improvement from their youngsters and
randomly taking out umpires behind play.

They ticked off all three in this one.

That all said, there's a big gap between them and the top teams, and a
gap between them and Fremantle too.

The Dockers took over later in the second half, with Josh Treacy
booting six and Shai Bolton enjoying taking on his old team.

It leaves us all wondering where the Dockers are this season.

They've won their last three, but they were against West Coast, the
Bulldogs and Richmond.

They play Melbourne next week so it will be a fortnight until we see
how they perform against an AFL side.

St Kilda (82) v Greater Western Sydney (110)

Once again, we return to a warm Norwood Oval, as the Giants got a
small home-field advantage, playing in front of less than 10,000
people.

St Kilda got a reality check early on, as the Giants shut them down
and then punished them on the rebound.

While the Orange Tsunami sound like something that happens when you've
drunk too much Aperol Spritz, it's apparently quickly rebounding off
the back half.

This works incredibly well, especially when you've got Toby Greene
running around causing mayhem.

He finished with five goals, and I also learnt Jake Stringer is
playing for the Giants; he finished with two goals.

The Giants are a bit good, and the hope we all have of a Suns-Giants
Grand Final is well alive.

As for the Saints, this was a good reminder they have a bit to go but
it wasn't all bad.

They kept going and there's enough there to keep building.

Port Adelaide (121) v Hawthorn (91)

And now time for the main event.

Hawthorn and Port, two teams that don't like each other, after a
22-year-old and a 58-year-old got into some light banter.

If there's any reason to have a rivalry, that's it. Forget
Rangers-Celtic.

Coming into this, Hawthorn was a team undefeated and cruising, while
Port seemed a team a bit lost and in the middle of a coaching
handover.

All that meant nothing as the Power came out and gave the Hawks an
absolute thumping in the first half, taking a 59-point lead into the
first half.

On top of that, the Power had just outmuscled the Hawks, who have made
a point of taking it up to teams, but here barely made a whimper.

If you're going to repeatedly poke someone, you can't be too surprised
when they hit back. It's a good lesson in the modern world.

Sam Mitchell looked like his head was going to explode at halftime,
while the Port fans hadn't been this happy since UDLs were invented.

The second half certainly saw the Hawks get back into the game, Jack
Gunston showing why he is one of the great mid-sized forwards, with
six goals, yet it was certainly too little too late.

Hawthorn showed they can talk the talk, but they can't walk the walk,
and teams will be looking forward to getting under their skin in the
future.

And with that Gather Round was done. If you didn't get there, put it
on your bucket list. It's genuinely as good as everyone says, and a
reminder that the best people are footy people.

