Thursday

Richmond (82) v Carlton (69)

Carlton certainly do have a brand; it's making their fans' lives a
living hell. 

To think, it seemed their ex-president would claim the most
embarrassing moment at Carlton this year, but it turns out he wasn't
even close.

I once said Norte Dame would be rebuilt before Carlton. It opened to
visitors last year.

Up by 41 points in the second quarter, Richmond fans were getting
ready for a long season.

But Carlton is a hope machine. Not for themselves but for their
opponents.

Like my mate Keith after a few bourbon and cokes, there's always a
chance with the Blues.

Richmond not only had a clean out last season, but they had three
debutants and a very rusty Tom Lynch.

But they had one advantage over the Blues, wanting to play football, a
handy advantage.

When the pressure came, the Blues wilted. Their skills were terrible,
and they had senior players being pushed off the ball by skinny
rookies.

Blues fans could only marvel at the predictability of it all, while
the Richmond bandwagon has filled up once again.

Friday

Hawthorn (111) v Essendon (85)

Bombers fans will be a bit over being told to have patience.

Essendon seem to always be stuck in one of two phases, starting a new
rebuild or giving up on the old rebuild.

After all, Hawthorn's rebuild under Sam Mitchell is just three years
old, while Essendon's is entering its third decade.

Most rebuilds are a bit like your tightarse mate promising their round
will be next. It's always going to happen, it never does.

Even more frustrating was that Essendon dominated the clearances but
didn't seem that sure what to do with the ball when they had it.

Their talls played with the effectiveness of those wavy blowup things
out the front of a second-hand car yard.

The Hawks had two victories before some teams had even played this
season.

They once again looked fast and competent which is disappointing.

If you want to ensure you get my columns every week, the best way is
to sign up for the email.

Saturday

Geelong (147) v Fremantle (69)

Why do the Dockers keep doing this to their own fans?

Everything from marking, to hitting a target seemed hard work for
Fremantle, as they wilted under the pressure of the Cats.

If it wasn't for first gamer Murphy Reid bobbing up and booting four
goals in just six minutes, this could have been even uglier.

I'm not one to overreact over one game but put a line through
Fremantle.

Oh wait, I am one to overreact. I'm also a bit of an idiot. Still
Fremantle need to fix about forty things.

Once again, Geelong look set for a good year.

Headband connoisseur Bailey Smith made an impressive debut with 32 and
a goal.

It's just nice to see Geelong finally land a big recruit.

Sydney (82) v Brisbane (86)

After Cyclone Alfred delayed their start to the season, Brisbane
rolled out this year's model of Ashcroft.

The Levi edition looked the goods, and last year's model, the Will,
again proved classy.

Not to be left behind, Sydney had the Warner Brothers.

Surely these breeding programs are an unfair advantage?

I want to know what my club is doing to breed the next generation of
superstars. Is gene editing a possibility? Cloning?

The Swans got out early to a 23-point lead in the first, leaving
Sydney fans to wonder where this had been last September.

The Lions managed to get back on top and started wearing the Swans
down.

It leaves the Swans 0-2. You can't win a premiership from
there. Right, Brisbane?

Western Bulldogs (113) v North Melbourne (97)

The Bulldogs focus in preseason was injuring their players, a
questionable approach if you ask me.

They were missing Marcus Bontempelli, Adam Treloar, Cody Weightman,
and Liam Jones.

They're the only Bulldogs whose names I know, but the other guys put
up a fight against a spirited North side.

The main talking point was when Jackson Archer's knee collided with
Luke Cleary, leaving Cleary knocked out.

Archer got three weeks, but it seemed more unlucky than intentional to
me.

Perhaps the Match Review Officer remembers Glenn Archer and the AFL
are now handing down an inter-generational tax on some players.

Collingwood (136) v Port Adelaide (45)

We didn't get through one quarter of the new season before Port fans
called for the club to sack Ken.

It doesn't get much to get a Port fan to call for Ken to go, and the
club did sort of sack him in the offseason, but this was quick even
for them.

This was very poor.

Given Collingwood are apparently old and slow, I'm not sure what that
makes Port. 

Young but disinterested perhaps?

Succession plans seem to never really work. I mean, you don't start
going out with someone before you dump your current partner.

Well, you shouldn't.

It just results in a whole lot of hurt feelings.

Even worse, former Power player Dan Houston ran amok and Tim Membrey
relished not being at St Kilda, which is understandable.

Are Collingwood back, or are Port just terrible, and will Josh Carr be
coach before Easter?

It's going to be an intriguing season.

Sunday

Adelaide (135) v St Kilda (72)

St Kilda's major problem is they don't have very good players.

You can analyse gameplans all you want but not having very good
players is a fair indication of how your team is going to go.

Add to that the fact that a Ross Lyon side that can't defend is a bit
like a boat that can't float. It's kind of the one thing they're built
for.

Yet Adelaide found scoring early on Sunday as they piled on five goals
to none in just the opening 18 minutes.

St Kilda seemed to get a bit interested in putting up a fight in the
second quarter, before finding that a bit too much trouble in the
third and the floodgates opened.

It makes the Crows another team to wonder, are we good or did we just
play one of the worst teams going around?

Melbourne (74) v Greater Western Sydney (77)

Some losses aren't the disaster of others are, and as the Dees fans
packed away their cheese platters, there was a sense that this wasn't
the complete end of the world.

The new kids looked good, the Dees probably should have won it, and
the Giants are no slouches.

The big problem is when it really mattered, the Giants leaders lifted
and a few of the Dees leaders didn't.

Toby Greene is super annoying to play against. He just knows where to
be.

Everyone at the G just got a sense he would be the difference, and it
proved to be true.

The Dees had a few chances to seal this, and games like this come down
to taking those.

When Aidan Johnson missed a shot at goal, it seemed inevitable the
ball would go up the other end and result in a goal.

It stung to watch Lachlan Keeffe mark at the end and convert.

It's like I always say, you never want to let Lachlan Keeffe beat
you.

West Coast (49) v Gold Coast (136)

The Suns had their biggest victory ever on Sunday, as the Eagles fans
resigned themselves to another year watching quite a bit of garbage.

West Coast's midfield may have been out on the field but on TV it was
hard to spot them, as the Suns seemed to have complete control of
stoppages.

At times, the ease at which the Suns went forward made it look like a
late evening stroll.

Tim Kelly and Harley Reid not playing really hurt the Eagles.

Lucky for Andrew McQualter, Eagles fans are a patient loss, and he's
got plenty of time to turn things around.
