Thursday

Geelong (127) v Western Bulldogs (113)

As the Doggies fans headed back up the highway, they would have
wondered why their team decided to boot seventeen behinds.

Personally, if I were one of their players, I would have said, "hey
guys, let's stop kicking behinds and start kicking goals!" I would
have said it in an enthusiastic voice as well to really motivate them.

That would have fixed it.

In a game that had more subplots than an episode of The Wire, both
sides ensured it lived up to the hype.

Bailey Smith was left alone in the main by the Doggies, such was their
dislike for him, they didn't go near him all night.

Jeremy Cameron and Shannon Neale booted six and five goals
respectively as the Cats took their opportunities.

The Dogs wouldn't be too disheartened. They were right in it, and if
anything, they cost themselves, with their goal kicking being
Geelong's greatest defensive strength.

If you want to ensure you get my columns every week, the best way is
to sign up for the email.

Friday

Essendon (81) v Richmond (58)

Dreamtime at the 'G was not a good dream in a footballing sense.

It was more one of those frustrating dreams that don't really go
anywhere, you try to run but you can't, and it leaves you feeling
uneasy after you wake up.

The Bombers make football look hard. Despite appearances, their
players do this as a full-time job, but you wouldn't know that by
watching them

The Tigers, despite lacking experience, gave it their all, but both
sides butchered the ball, especially into the forward line.

So monotonous did the turnovers become that the 76,000-plus crowd
sounded like a St Kilda crowd.

The Bombers midfield finally got on top, but it's hardly a performance
that would fill Essendon supporters with confidence.

Saturday

Carlton (82) v Greater Western Sydney (110)

My partner says I'm a lot like Carlton. I've underperformed for
decades, I'm inaccurate, my decision making is poor, I'm lazy and my
transition off half back leaves a lot to be desired.

While I feel the comparison is a bit unfair on my end, she's spot on
about Carlton.

The Blues real problem is they just don't win. They seem to lack a
real star who can make a difference when it really matters (with
apologies to Patrick Cripps).

The Giants don't have that problem. In his 250th game, Toby Greene
showed what a difference one player can make.

Running through the midfield, as well as up forward, he had 28
disposals, six clearances and six inside-50s, while booting three
goals.

He may be suspended every second game, but he's a winner.

Hawthorn (60) v Brisbane (93)

It might not be panic stations at the Lions, but it has been "slight
unease stations" in recent weeks.

That unease will be gone after a dominant performance against the
pantomime villain of the AFL, Hawthorn.

The last time the Lions beat the Hawks at the MCG, Shannon Noll's
version of "What about me?" was on top of the charts.

For those of you who don't judge time based on Shannon's chart history
(which is weird), that was 21 years ago.

The second quarter was the difference, with the Lions blitzing the
Hawks, seven goals to two.

Charlie Cameron's three goals in mere minutes was something to see and
the Indigenous dancing after the goal was elite.

I love all the Indigenous celebrations, and it's strange to think Adam
Goodes copped it so much when he did it.

Perhaps we could introduce dancing from all cultures after a goal. My
culture's version of dancing is to sway drunkenly while belting out
Khe Sanh.

That would really be something to see. It would really bring a tear to
the eye.

North Melbourne (63) v Collingwood (108)

For three quarters, North hung in there with a Collingwood side
missing quite a few key players.

Brayden Maynard going down in the first quarter was the last thing the
Pies needed.

North seemed to lift immediately, sensing a weakened opposition.

At three-quarter time, however, Craig McRae obviously decided that
while it had been fun, it was time to put an end to this.

The Pies responded by going through about eight gears, which is eight
more than North have, and that was it.

The ease at which the Pies pulled away would frustrate North fans who
would have drawn some hope from the day's performance until then.

The good news is North just now need one more quarter to be a serious
side.

In recent years, they've needed four and sometimes it felt like five
or six.

Fremantle (100) v Port Adelaide (51)

Port started the year trying a coaching handover that we have learnt
over the years almost never works, and guess what? It hasn't worked.

For a side with more talent than they are showing, they've looked
flatter than a grade five class who have learnt their camp this year
will be in Canberra.

Fremantle certainly needed this, after a lacklustre start to the
season they now sit ninth on the ladder.

Unfortunately, they could be without their captain Alex Pearce who has
been handed three weeks for his bump on Darcy Byrne-Jones.

It's possible the Dockers will appeal it, given there's an argument
the hit, coming the last second in a marking contest, was difficult to
avoid.

That said, the AFL have been very keen to stamp this sort of thing
out, but then it's the AFL Tribunal, so who know what they'll do?

Even they don't, and that's even after they've made a decision.

We all know that when it comes to AFL appeals, they are the least
predictable things in the universe. They make quantum physics seem
easy to decipher.

Sunday

Adelaide (128) v West Coast (62)

Like the Red October running on caterpillar drive, the Crows have
snuck into the top four and no one even noticed.

If you don't believe me, go check the AFL website, which I've done
seven times today to make sure, and yes, they are still there.

Hang on, I'm just going to check again. Give me a moment.

Yep, still there.

Amazing.

I'm not sure anyone else in Victoria knows this. I'm sure they do in
South Australia.

Hang on, let me make sure I'm looking at the right year.

Yeah, I was. Still fourth.

Melbourne (131) v Sydney (78)

Like some of the Chateau Lafite Rothschild I've got in the cellar at
one of my homes, Melbourne's season keeps getting better with age.

After a disastrous start, the Dees have righted the ship, contested
footy is back, the defence is functioning well, and the midfield is
winning plenty of the ball.

Even up forward, they are getting plenty of opportunities. It's just
converting them.

The goalkicking is just horrendous. The Dees could have buried the
injury-depleted Swans in the first half, but miss after simple miss
kept the Swans around.

Luckily, the Dees have a young man by the name Kysaiah Pickett who ran
amok and made a significant difference, albeit hitting the post an
alarming number of times.

If the Dees could kick straight they would be lethal. IF they can't
fix it, they won't get away with it against the top sides.

The Swans just don't have many of their key players playing.

Injuries may not be an excuse, but they are a reason, and Sydney have
plenty of reasons why they are struggling.

If you want to ensure you get my columns every week, the best way is
to sign up for the email.

St Kilda (61) v Gold Coast Suns (80)

Ross Lyon called the Gold Coast the nepo baby of the AFL, which is
outrageous and accurate.

The Suns reacted by claiming this was outrageous, which it is, but it
is also accurate.

St Kilda are certainly not the nepo baby of the AFL, they're more an
orphan out of a Charles Dickens novel, and not a main character one
who makes good.

More one of the background orphans you never really hear about.

To be fair, almost every club has been a nepo baby at some point,
needing the AFL to bail it out from their own ineptitude.

All this is to say, the back and forth around this was more
interesting than the game itself.
