Thursday

Port Adelaide (110) v Carlton (60)

Sorry again for missing last week. The past month the family have had
so many illnesses it's been like running a hospital. That made me like
Dr. Gregory House, cranky, poor social skills and resenting the
patients I was looking after. 

Luckily, I think we're coming out the end of it and should be back to
normal programming.

After losing to North Melbourne, the Blues were keen to make a
statement, and they did.

That statement was "help! We don't know how to play football."

Instead of coming out strong, the Blues managed just one goal before
half-time in a harrowing display for their supporters.

So bad did it get that Michael Voss made his way down to the sidelines
from the coaches' box, I assume in a desperate attempt to play.

I still hear people claiming Carlton have a great list but are
underperforming but is that really true?

It's like people keep projecting onto them what they want them to be,
not seeing what they are.

As Maya Angelou once said, "When someone shows you who they are,
believe them."

Damn it, such a cliche for a footy column to quote Maya Angelou.

As for Port, there's nothing like a game against the Blues to cheer
you up.

Against Carlton, the Power looked like the Harlem Globetrotters, which
makes sense as the Blues are the Washington Generals of the AFL.

Friday

Sydney (96) v Western Bulldogs (105)

For some reason, this was held on what I can only assume was a paddock
that had recently been grazed on by a very large herd of cattle.

Players were slipping and sliding everywhere.

When I looked into it, I discovered that this was the SCG not an
agricultural showground.

The SCG is apparently in bad shape from an Andrea Bocelli concert held
back in April.

That makes sense, Opera fans are known to be particularly destructive,
they probably got a circle pit happening and a Wall of Death.

In a round of terrible games, this was the pick of the bunch.

Lunar surface aside, both sides went back and forth at each other,
like your left-leaning uncle and right-leaning aunt at Christmas
dinner.

In Marcus Bontempelli's 250th, the Doggies dug deep, and with the help
of some wayward goalkicking from the Swans got on top when it
mattered.

The real highlight was Tom Papley trying to pick a fight Sam Darcy.

It's always hard to be intimidating when you don't even come up to a
bloke's shoulder.

Saturday

Gold Coast (104) v Melbourne (85)

Using the first quarter to warm up with some light jogging was
probably a strategic mistake for the Dees.

It was garbage stuff. The Dees looked bewildered a footy game was
occurring around them.

The Suns took advantage and could have completely blown the Demons
away in the first, booting 5.7 to 0.1.

A quarter-time spray from Max Gawn seemed to wake Melbourne, and from
then they showed an appropriate level of interest in the game, but the
damage was done.

The Suns just needed to keep the Dees at arm's length. It's about to
be July and the Suns are still in the eight. If they don't hurry up,
they'll miss their second-half collapse.

As for the Dees, I'm excited to hear about how the team is working on
the midfield-forward line connection.

The only other connection that's taken this long is the train to
Melbourne Airport.

Hawthorn (150) v North Melbourne (65)

To call this a contest would be to bend that word so out of shape as
to lose all meaning.

After a week celebrating their win against Carlton, it was back to the
AFL for the Kangaroos, and they did not seem to like it.

The Hawks ran amok in Launceston, practising some drills, having a
laugh, occasionally checking to see if the Roos were still out there.

Jack Gunston kicked a career-best seven goals as Hawthorn's midfield
took the ball forward like they were going for a light stroll.

North may be improving but the growth is slow. It's like watching
grass grow.

At the SCG.

Collingwood (88) v West Coast (59)

The Pies had to travel this week, all the way to Marvel Stadium, and
unused to long road trips, they took a while to get going.

In a positive sign for the Eagles, the work rate was there, not
something you can say about them very often.

The challenge was matching it when it came to execution, and here the
Eagles struggled with more complicated matters like hitting a target.

Collingwood didn't look great early on, but it was like when a cub
bear play attacks a parent. They put up with it awhile, then they
brush them off.

The Pies have multiple gears, where West Coast are like a Billy Cart,
they don't have any.

Sunday

Richmond (54) v Adelaide (122)

It's happy times at the Crows. They're third on the ladder and just
smashed a team that has haunted their nightmares for years.

If they avoid future mindfulness sessions, they could go far.

One man who needs some mindfulness session is Tom Lynch who put
together a true shocker of a game, which included taking a swing at
Jordon Butts.

Lynch and Butts were lucky it didn't connect fully, or things could
have been much worse.

It was entirely predictable too.

You could see Lynch getting frustrated all game before finally having
enough and lashing out. It reminded me of a substitute teacher at
school.

Lynch said afterwards that he needs to be better. That's so true, but
he's a young player and is still learning. It's not like this is a
pattern of behaviour over a long career.

Adelaide moved on and really put their foot on the Tigers throat to
finish them off and they face Melbourne next, so things couldn't be
better.

Fremantle (81) v St Kilda (69)

For a team 15th on the ladder, the Saints are no easybeats.

They put in a lot of effort, they just can't score, which is unlike a
Ross Lyon team.

As expected, Marcus Windhager went to Nick Daicos again, which is just
an extreme level of tagging.

The Dockers had their hands full all day as the Saints kept coming at
them, but the Fremantle just had more weapons to deploy.

Sean Darcy and Luke Jackson in the ruck made a big difference,
especially Jackson late, and Jordan Clark was impressive, and becomes
the fourth Docker I've committed to memory.

Fremantle have now won six games in a row and sit sixth on the
ladder. I even saw a brief mention of them in the Melbourne media.

Exciting times!
